[DX-1641] Simplify Tyk Operator installation instructions (#5306)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/tyk-stack/tyk-operator/installing-tyk-operator.md

    main:
        parent: "Getting started with Tyk Operator"
---
Follow this guide to install and configure Tyk Operator using [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/) to manage API resources on one Tyk Gateway or Dashboard. Since Tyk Operator is a cluster-scoped resource, it should be deployed once for a cluster only. For advanced usage where you need to connect to multiple Tyk installations or Organizations, see [Managing Multiple Organizations with Operator Context]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-operator/getting-started/tyk-operator-multiple-organisations">}}).

## Prerequisites

- [Kubernetes v1.19+](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/)
- [Helm 3+](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- Kubernetes Cluster Admin rights for installing [CustomResourceDefinitions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/)
- [cert-manager v1.8+](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/kubectl/). Check [cert-manager installation guide](#installing-cert-manager) if you do not have it.
- Tyk Gateway or Tyk Dashboard v3+. Check [Required Tyk configurations](#configuring-tyk) for necessary configurations.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**  

> Tyk Operator supports any Tyk installation whether it is on Tyk Cloud, Hybrid, or self-managed on VMs and K8s. You only need to make sure that the control plane URL is accessible by Tyk Operator.

Reviewer: Do we need to mention specifically "VMs *and* K8s" here? Any self-managed installation would work fine as far as Tyk Operator can connect to it.

Author: ```suggestion
Tyk Operator supports any Tyk installation whether it is on Tyk Cloud, Hybrid, or self-managed. You only need to make sure that the control plane URL is accessible by Tyk Operator.
```

Please wait for the cert-manager to become available before continuing with the next step.

## Installation steps

### Option 1: Installing Tyk Operator via Tyk's Umbrella Helm Charts

> If you are using [Tyk Stack]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-stack-chart">}}), [Tyk Control Plane]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-control-plane-chart">}}), or [Tyk Open Source Chart]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-oss-chart">}}), you can install Tyk Operator along side other Tyk components by setting value `global.components.operator` to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using [Tyk Stack]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-stack-chart">}}), [Tyk Control Plane]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-control-plane-chart">}}), or [Tyk Open Source Chart]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-oss-chart">}}), you can install Tyk Operator alongside other Tyk components by setting value `global.components.operator` to `true`.
```

### Option 2: Installing Tyk Operator via stand-alone Helm Chart

If you prefer to install Tyk Operator separately, following this section to install Tyk Operator using Helm.

#### Step 1: Create tyk-operator-conf secret

> Tyk Operator configurations are set via Kubernetes secret. The default K8s secret name is `tyk-operator-conf`. The secret should contain following keys: 

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to change the default secret name? If so should we link to section that explains how to use a different secret name other than `tyk-operator-conf`?

```suggestion
Tyk Operator configurations are set via a Kubernetes secret. The default K8s secret name is `tyk-operator-conf`. The secret should contain the following keys: 
```

Author: updated

| Key | Mandatory | Example Value (Open Source) | Example Value (Tyk Pro)  | Description  |
|:-----|:-----|:----------------|:-------------|:-------------|
| `TYK_MODE` | Yes | `ce` | `pro` | “ce” for Tyk Open Source mode, “pro” for Tyk licensed mode. |
| `TYK_URL` | Yes | `http://gateway-svc-tyk-ce-tyk-gateway.tyk.svc:8080` | `http://dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard.tyk.svc:3000` | Management URL of Tyk Gateway (Open Source) or Tyk Dashboard |
| `TYK_AUTH` | Yes | `myapisecret` | `2d095c2155774fe36d77e5cbe3ac963b` | Operator user API key. |
| `TYK_ORG`| Yes | `myorgid`| `5e9d9544a1dcd60001d0ed20`|  Operator user ORG ID. |
| `TYK_TLS_INSECURE_SKIP_VERIFY`| No | `true` | `true` | Set to `“true”` if the Tyk URL is HTTPS and has a self-signed certificate. If it isn't set, the default value is `false`.|

> | `WATCH_NAMESPACE` |No |  `foo,bar` |`foo,bar` | Comma separated list of namespaces for Operator to operate on. The default is to all namespaces if not specified.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `WATCH_NAMESPACE` |No |  `foo,bar` |`foo,bar` | Comma separated list of namespaces for Operator to operate on. The default is to operate on all namespaces if not specified.|
```

> | `WATCH_INGRESS_CLASS` |No |  `customclass` |`customclass` | Define the ingress class Tyk Operator to watch for. Default is `tyk`|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `WATCH_INGRESS_CLASS` |No |  `customclass` |`customclass` | Define the ingress class Tyk Operator should watch. Default is `tyk`|
```

| `TYK_HTTPS_INGRESS_PORT` |No |  `8443` |`8443` | Define the ListenPort for HTTPS ingress. Default is `8443`.|
| `TYK_HTTP_INGRESS_PORT` |No |  `8080` |`8080` | Define the ListenPort for HTTP ingress. Default is `8080`.|

##### Connection to Tyk Gateway or Dashboard

> If you install Tyk using Helm Chart, `tyk-operator-conf` will have been created with the following keys: `TYK_AUTH, TYK_MODE, TYK_ORG`, and `TYK_URL` by default. If you didn't use Helm Chart for installation, please prepare `tyk-operator-conf` secret yourself following below instruction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you install Tyk using Helm Chart, `tyk-operator-conf` will have been created with the following keys: `TYK_AUTH, TYK_MODE, TYK_ORG`, and `TYK_URL` by default. If you didn't use Helm Chart for installation, please prepare `tyk-operator-conf` secret yourself using the commands below:
```

  --from-literal "TYK_AUTH=${TYK_AUTH}" \
  --from-literal "TYK_ORG=${TYK_ORG}" \
  --from-literal "TYK_MODE=${TYK_MODE}" \
  --from-literal "TYK_URL=${TYK_URL}"
```

{{< note success >}}
**Note**  

For open source users, user API key corresponds to Gateway's [secret]({{<ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#secret">}}).

> For licensed users, user API key and Organization ID can be found under "Add / Edit User" page within Tyk Dashboard. TYK_AUTH` corresponds to `Tyk Dashboard API Access Credentials`. `TYK_ORG` corresponds to `Organization ID`.

Reviewer 2: In the preview, the note renders corresponds etc. incorrectly using backticks. 

Move the explanation of Tyk_AUTH and TYK_ORG outside of the note below the commands above to create tyk-operator-conf secret

{{< /note >}}

{{< note success >}}
 **Note**
 If the credentials embedded in the `tyk-operator-conf` are ever changed or updated, the tyk-operator-controller-manager pod must be restarted to pick up these changes.
{{< /note >}}

##### Watching Namespaces

Tyk Operator is installed with cluster permissions. However, you can optionally control which namespaces it watches by setting the `WATCH_NAMESPACE` through `tyk-operator-conf` secret or the environment variable to a comma separated list of k8s namespaces. For example:

- `WATCH_NAMESPACE=""` will watch for resources across the entire cluster.
- `WATCH_NAMESPACE="foo"` will watch for resources in the `foo` namespace.
- `WATCH_NAMESPACE="foo,bar"` will watch for resources in the `foo` and `bar` namespace.

##### Watching custom ingress class

> You can configure [Tyk Operator as Ingress Controller]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-operator/tyk-ingress-controller">}}) so that [Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) resources can be managed by Tyk as APIs. By default, Tyk Operator looks for the value `tyk` in Ingress resources `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation and will ignore all other ingress classes. If you want to override this default behavior, you may do so by setting `WATCH_INGRESS_CLASS` through `tyk-operator-conf` or the environment variable.

Reviewer 2: Link the reader to the table above so that they can can see accompanying explanation of WATCH_INGRESS_CLASS

> #### Step 2: Installing Tyk Operator and CRDs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Step 2: Installing Tyk Operator and Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs)
```
